PLATE XVII.

Aucus the quaintest features of Orosraguel Abbey are the curiously carved corbels in
the sacristy. Unfortunately much of this interesting work is now indistinet and very
indefinite, partly owing to the boarding up of the sacristy window, and partly on
account of the dampness of the chamber and the consequent decay of the stone. As
correct a rendering of it as possible hae, however, been here given, and a few explana-
tory notes may also be ol interest. Nos. 1 to 4 are the angle corbels, and Nos. 5 and
6 those on the side walls. No. 1, in the north-east angle, is a rude representation of
abearded head with three laces. No. 2 isin the south-east angle, and, being next the
window, is ina better light, and can be more easily seen. No. 3, in the north-west
angle, appears to have been floral in character, two circular flowers being most pro-
minent, but the general deaign is almost altogether obliterated. No. 4, in the south-
west angle, is a gagged head, with staring eyeballs and every flat lace. No. 5 is on
tha north wall, and is the largest mass of sarving in the chamber, and seems to be two
roughly-cut monsters, with heads ol men, and lions' bodies partly covered with scales.
No. 6, on the south wall, forms the capital of the only wall shaft in the sacristy, and
carries two sitting squirrels, evidently enjoying a quiet meal All these corbels carry
the ribs ol the vaulted ceiling, and No. 7 is the bosa at the intersection of these ribs.
N Î¿. 8 is one of the hood mould terminals of the sacristy window, and is graced with
the formos a mermaid, for whose reception a special little niche has been cut out of
the side buttress. N o. 9 is from tha nave, and shows the base of one of the two wall
shafts, with the fragment of the classic band between, aheady mentioned as being the
only existing porticus of Lady Rovvs tomb.

 

