PLATES XV. nnn XVI.

Tun sacristy and chapter-house, being the most beautiful as well as the most perfect
portions of the Abbey ruins, are in these Platea shown mora in detail, and to a larger
scale; and the remarks made regarding them in the descriptions accompanying Platea
ΙΙ. and ΙΠ. are more fully illustrated by these drawings. The plan indicates more
clearly the positions of the bases and shafts of the earlier chapter-house, while tha
section shows from the interior the entire east walls of the two chambera also the
levels of the scriptorium and library floors above, occasioned hythe different heights
of the vanlted cellings While in the sacristy, the positione of the three fragmentuy
original wall shafts are shown, that in the angle of what is now the stair lobby may be
specially interesting, from the fact that it curies with it the moulding of the former
chapter-house door (Plate XXVII, No, 11). The round-headed door from the present
sacristy into this little vaulted lobby has had its left jamb stones built into the old
wall the mortar joints of which can still be traced on these stones, which now form
the ingoing of the rough modern door, here cut through the wall from the ohoir. The
lofty groined ceiling is of very elegant and graceful proportion‚ and the curicusly
carved stone corbels carrying the ribs are shown on the following Plate.

In the chapter-house the stone bench is still entire round two of its sides, and the
ogee arch of the Abbot’s seat is yet perfect in form although defaced in detail The
bosses of the four compartments ol the groined oeiling appear each to have carried a
carved shield‚ and any of the sarving remaining on these shields has been shown as
oarefully as possible in dotted lines on the plan The shield on the south-west oom— Ἰ
partnrent shows what is apparently intended to be the apsidal end of a building,
closely resembling the present choir apsa when entire, and of which it may possibly

be a rude representation. For details of the sacristy and chapter-house see Plate
XXV11.‚N0s. 3 to 12 inclusiva

 

